---
title: Local Info
layout: page
---

#Passport and Visa regulations

Iceland is an associate member of the Schengen Agreement, which exempts
travelers from personal border controls between 22 EU countries. For residents
outside the Schengen area, a valid passport is required for at least three
months beyond date of entry. For information on passport and visa requirements
as well as the Schengen area regulations, visit the website of the Icelandic
Directorate of Immigration: [www.utl.is][utl].

#Arrival in Iceland

Bus services are operated between Reykjavík and Keflavík International Airport
in connection with all arriving and departing flights, and seats are guaranteed.
Busses depart to and from Keflavík every 45-60 minutes. The drive between the
airport and Reykjavík takes about 45 minutes. For departing flights, it is
recommended that you take a bus leaving at least 2.5 hours before your scheduled
departure. It is possible to arrange a hotel pickup. Taxi services are available
to and from the airport. The car-ferry MS Nörrona sails weekly between Denmark,
and Seyðisfjörður in East Iceland giving visitors the option of bringing their
own vehicle for transport.

#Getting around Reykjavík

Reykjavík University can be found at the address [Menntavegur 1, 101
Reykjavík][maptouniversity]. The bus number 5 will stop in front of the building
at the stop Nauthóll/HR. It is a 30-40 minute walk from the downtown area.

You can download the Stræto app on your phone. This allows you to pay for
tickets, plan your routes, view timetables plus see precisely where all the
buses are from your phone. The app is available for Android and iPhone. For more
information about the buses check [www.straeto.is][straeto].

#Language

Icelandic is the national language. English is the country’s official second
language and is spoken widely. Danish is the third language taught in schools in
Iceland.

#Medical attention

Pharmacies are called “Apótek” and are open during normal business hours. Only a
few are open at night. Medical Care can be obtained by visiting a Health Care
Centre, called “Heilsugæslustöð” in Icelandic, during opening hours. For
information, call +354-585-1300 or see [www.heilsugaeslan.is][heilsugaeslan]
Medical help: There is a medical centre or hospital in all major cities and
towns in Iceland. The emergency phone number (24 hours) in Iceland is 112.

Health insurance: Citizens of EEA countries must bring their EHIC card (European
Health Insurance Card), otherwise they will be charged in full. Non-EEA citizens
are not covered by the EEA regulations and will be charged in full. For further
information, contact the Icelandic Health Insurance. Tel.: +354-515-0100, Fax:
+354-515-0051 Office hours: 10:00–15:00. [www.sjukra.is][sjukra]. Special
vaccinations are not required to enter Iceland.

#Driving in Iceland

Ring Road Nr. 1 around Iceland is 1,332 km (827 mi). The general speed limit is
50 km/h in urban areas, 80 km/h on gravel roads in rural areas, and 90 km/h on
asphalt, rural roads. Major highways are paved. Most mountain roads are closed
until the end of June, or even longer, because of snow and muddy conditions,
which make them impassable. For more information, be sure to visit
[www.safetravel.is][safetravel]. Most roads in the interior of Iceland have a
loose gravel surface, which is especially loose along the sides of the roads.
The mountain roads are quite narrow and are not made for speeding. The same goes
for some bridges that will only let one car cross at a time. Information on road
conditions, tel.: +522-1000, daily 8:00–16:00. [www.road.is][roads].

All off-road driving and driving outside of marked tracks is prohibited by law.
Icelandic nature is delicate and tire tracks from off-road driving can cause
substantial damage to the vegetation and leave marks that will last for decades.
Respect the nature and tread carefully. For some mountain tracks it is strongly
advised that two or more cars travel together. Passengers in the front and
backseats of an automobile are required by law to use safety-belts. Icelandic
law forbids any driving under the influence of alcohol and driving while talking
on a mobile phone is also banned.

#National Parks

There are three National Parks in Iceland, each with its own particular points
of interest. Thingvellir, is in a rift valley between the North Atlantic and
Eurasian Plates. It is a site of historical and cultural as well as of
geological importance, and is recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage site.
Snæfellsjökull National Park includes a volcano and glacier, and is steeped in
mystery and romance; it is the only Park that reaches from the seashore to the
mountaintops. Vatnajökull National Park is the largest national park in Europe,
covering an area of 13.600 km2. The park encompasses, among other areas, the
Vatnajökull glacier, Skaftafell, Jökulsárgljúfur, Lakagígar and Langisjór.

#Banks and post offices

Opening hours are Mon–Fri, 9:00–16:00. 24-hour cash dispensers are found in
cities and villages around the country. Look for the Hraðbanki sign. All major
credit and debit cards are accepted, especially by hotels, restaurants, shops
and petrol stations in Iceland. Traveller’s cheques are accepted at many hotels
and tourist information centers. The major cards in Iceland are MasterCard and
VISA. Currency exchange: The Icelandic monetary unit is the króna (ISK). All
Icelandic banks provide foreign exchange. Post offices: General hours are
Mon–Fri 09:00–18:00. More on [www.postur.is][postur].

#Climate and clothing

Thanks to the Gulf Stream, Iceland enjoys a cool, temperate maritime climate;
cool in summer and fairly mild in winter. The month of June is characterized by
gradually rising daily high temperatures – some would even say warm days! As for
the actual temperatures, you can expect the average low to be approximately 5.5
degrees Celsius (42 F) and the average high temperatures to be 12.8 degrees
Celsius (55 F). Keep in mind that these are averages. You could get lucky and
have warmer days. But, in general life at this latitude means dealing with cool
temperatures, even in June. By the end of June the length of day is almost 21
hours. For weather information in English, tel.: 902-0600.
[www.vedur.is][vedur].

#Shopping

Shops in Iceland are of international standard and carry a wide variety of
merchandise. Local specialties include woolen knitwear (sweaters, hats and
mittens, for example), ceramics, glassware and silver jewelry. General opening
hours are 10–18. Saturdays 10/11–14/18.

#Tax free shopping

VAT in Iceland is 24% or 11% on special goods. To get a refund you must have a
permanent address outside of Iceland. Minimum amount spent on a single receipt
in order to be eligible for tax-free shopping is ISK 6.000. Goods must be
exported within three months from date of purchase. Maximum refund is 15% of the
retail price.

#Quality insurance

Vakinn is the official quality assurance organization for Icelandic tourism.
Only companies that maintain the highest standards in all aspects of business
practices and meet a comprehensive assessment criteria have earned the right to
carry Vakinn – Iceland tourism’s official quality label. When you see a business
displaying the Vakinn symbol, you can be assured that it is trustworthy and
professional.

Accommodation locales are divided into several categories. Within each category,
ratings from one to five stars may be awarded, as is generally known

#Useful phone numbers

Emergency number: 112

Police: 444 1000

Medical assistance: 1770

Information: 1818

# Further information

For any further info please contact the conference organizers at
elisabet@cpreykjavik.is and we will try to help you.

[maptouniversity]: https://www.google.is/maps/place/Reykjavik+University/@64.1261982,-21.9331785,15z/data=!4m5!3m4!1s0x48d60b4e184b7e19:0xb87126c26f3d3420!8m2!3d64.1237635!4d-21.9269558
[straeto]: http://www.straeto.is/en
[heilsugaeslan]: http://www.heilsugaeslan.is
[roads]: http://www.road.is
[vedur]: http://en.vedur.is
[utl]: http://www.utl.is/index.php/en/
[sjukra]: http://www.sjukra.is
[safetravel]: http://www.safetravel.is
[postur]: http://www.postur.is/en
